# ABET Constraints Essay

## Professional
The first main topic I want to focus on is the professional aspect of my project. Since this is mainly a research project, it would be quite a waste if I were to not proceed with this project as a formal paper. This would be my first published work and thus could have a large impact on my work to come. The outcome and work from this project will be very influential in my master's thesis as well. Also from the professional aspect, the project will take a lot of research in the fields and it is thus pertinent to detail the entirety of sources I've cited within my project and forthcoming paper. There will be much needed expertise given from my professor on the terms of machine learning and even denotational semantics. Finally, doing a project by oneself can be very time consuming and it is very easy to miss large aspects of the project. In order to publish a paper from my findings, it is very important to fully explore the problem and thus my results. I believe that the final output of this project can give me a strong reflection of the work I can produce in the future. Thus, this project is the development of my future in the academic research world of computer science.

## Security
While the program at its base doesn't necessarily raise direct security concerns, there is much intended for the expansion of its ideals. The idea of understanding the functionality of a program can become very strong in a security point of view. Being able to track a binary file and easily understand its execution can lead to many uses for hackers. However, the project has just the inverse effect also. By exploring the execution paths of programs, one could potentially find parts of a file that contain viruses since it's much different from the typical execution of the program. This would require an important expansion of the data which is a spacial-temporal one. Not only would it be important to comprehend the data in the form of the the instructions followed but also in the form of where and when these instructions are executed. Also, my master's thesis research is currently related to this field but the data and information from it has very specific security regulations and it is very important that I do not mix the data from the two projects.

## Legal
Following the security section, is the legal concerns of my senior design project. As I stated at the end, my thesis research will be very related to this project. In fact, some of the ideas generated from this project could be applicable in the future of my research. My thesis project is through the AFRL and thus has several security requirements upon the project. Therefore, it is essential not to mix the two projects whatsoever. The privacy concerns here are very large and can mean very strict repercussions. Therefore, I cannot use any data or findings from my other research in this project.

## Social
Finally, we rest on the social portion of the project. In the end, I hope for my software created to be freeware available to the public through Github. This makes it very useful in the public eye. This will require a lot of documentation for the project, however writing a formal published work should help a lot for documenting my findings. Not only do I intend on working with my project further, but I wish for it to be available to others to build onto also. My goals with this project thus are to provide a comprehensive review of my own results that are relevant to the areas of machine learning. Thus, the choosing of my algorithms and processes are even more important so as to make my research prevalent in the domain of machine learning. Should I choose outdated or ineffective algorithms, then my research as a whole could be rendered inadequate.
