# Capstone Self-Assessment Essay

## What is the Project ?
From my perspective, this project is about exploring the true "meaning" of a program. While as humans, we can innately understand the execution of simple code, it often becomes very difficult for a computer to comprehend the functionality of a program overall. In the case of this project, I seek to better comprehend this functionality and even describe it in such a fashion as to generalize its definition. Using these general classifiers, the aim of the project is to further understand other programs and furthermore, even understand the use of differing sections in binary code. While we may comprehend high level code, the real goal of the project supports analysis of very low level binaries and machine code in order to break down sections of programs.  In the end, this project is much more of a research endeavor than an aim for a professional product.

## Technical Skills and Experiences Guiding
The classes the most applicable towards this project are a course concerning software security that I took abroad at the University of Bordeaux, as well as CS6037, Machine Learning. The course at UC on machine learning is undoubtedly the most important course to aid in this project as the final portion of the project is concerning using machine learning algorithms from this course in order to try to learn the semantics of the programs. However, the software security course is very important because through it, I became very familiar with assembly code, which will eventually be very important to a quick analysis of the different semantics within the program. The first iteration of the machine learning will be strictly from the assembly code instructions as they are a very good equivalent of denotational semantics. However some instructions are a compilation of several instructions which may be further utilized in not only an analysis of the entire program but also an analysis based on the position and space of the program. However, this requires a very in-depth analysis which requires much more than learned through the courses. Finally, I created a CS Independent study course with Dr Nan Niu which lead to a lot of experience in research fields as well as with software engineering. While the research covered in the class is not necessarily useful towards this project, the skills taught in the class (requirements, project planning, and how to read and analyze research papers) are undoubtedly useful.

My Co-op and work experiences guiding the project are two-fold. The first was my first few co-ops at Siemens PLM in their Advanced Solutions division. The advanved solutions division is their version of R&D, or research and development. In this division, most of my projects were self-driven and highly research based. In this case, the project is very similar. Since I am the lone student on this project, it is based mostly on my own findings and my discussions with my professor. Therefore, a lot will be based off of the research portions of the project and expansion of other projects and ideas. My most recent co-op with Dr. Atluri helped prepare me towards writing papers, especially my masters thesis. The data analytics skills I received from this co-op will undoubtedly be useful going ahead in the optimization of my machine learning algorithm as well as for better understanding how the data relates. Using these skills will definitely be an opportune way to find better results for my final project.

## Motivation and Approach

While the project was originally suggested by Dr Ralescu, the ideals from the project correlate a lot to my master's thesis topic. Using my results from this project and much further research, I hopefully will be able to compile it into a significant portion of my thesis. Therefore, the results from this project are very important to me. Undoubtedly my end goal is to find a way to semantically classify and relate these different kinds of programs, but I think that a strong algorithm for classification and analysis is the key to the project. Finding some sort of pattern in these types of files is the expect result of the project, as developing a finished project could require much more domain specific knowledge. Therefore, I am more concerned with the approach and connections rather than the end result. Machine learning is a very particular field and without a strong background, very important classifications could be misinterpreted. Therefore, the project the will require close work with my professor when the project reaches towards the end for making sure that I'm using the correct procedures and algorithms. For now, my approach is as follows: research on the topic, creation of simple c++ programs, translation into assembly code for use of a easier deduction of denotational semantics, and then writing an algorithm to classify these files using half as a training set and the other half as a test set. From there, many additions can be made to the project including use of binary files, aggregation of assembly instructions, and a more robust approach of generating the exact semantics of the program (as assembly instructions can be conglomerates of the mathematical statements). The largest problem will be how to ground truth classify the files. Hopefully this problem can be partially answered through research but my initial findings do not show any strong approaches. Thus, I think the strongest basis of whether or not I've done well on my project relies on the initial classification problem. Initially, this will be accomplished by describing the type of algorithm (sort, search, etc), but this approach will undeniably need refined since these types algorithms can be implemented very differently.
